---
title: Global gitignore
---

A [gitignore file](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore) specifies intentionally untracked files that Git should ignore.

In my opinion, you should generally keep two kinds of gitignore files: project and global.

## Project Level

Inside each project/repository, you should have a `.gitignore` file in the root directory. This should contain project specific files to ignore, such as:

- Compiled code ex: `dist`,`.jar` ,`.pyc` `.js`
- Log files generated by the project ex:  `.log`
- Configuration files that may have secrets or apply only to a single developer
- Dependency and package management files: ex `node_modules/`  `vendor/`

## Global Level

To ignore files across all projects on your developer system, you should have the ignore file at  `~/.config/git/ignore`. This should contain system/developer specific files to ignore, such as:

- Operating system files ex:  `.DS_Store`
- IDE/editor files specific to the dev ex: `.vscode`, `.swp`

[Here’s mine.](https://github.com/mjperrone/dot_files/blob/master/.gitignore_global)

## Motivation

Why should there be a global? Why not just put everything in each project?

1. **Don’t Repeat Yourself**. With no global ignore if you use vim and want every repo you work on to ignore vim swap files, you’ll have to remember to explicitly include `*.swp`in every repo. It’s less mental overhead for you as the vim developer to only have to include it in your global gitignore. It’s also less code.
2. **Hide Unnecessary Information.** Everything in the repo (like the .gitignore) is something that someone else may need to take time to understand. If you include OS and editor files that only apply to some devs using the repo, those devs will still have to spend time reading and thinking about those ignores, if just to understand that it isn’t relevant to them. Hide irrelevant information to promote fast comprehension of everything else.

Ideally, reading the gitignore for a project will tell you about important side effects and assumptions of the system in the repo that are not saved in the repo itself. It should not tell you about the editor/OS preferences of the authors.